{"query":"Lyman GH, Giuliano AE, Somerfield MR, et al. American Society of Clinical Oncology guideline recommendations for sentinel lymph node biopsy in early-stage breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:7703-7720. ","relevant_passages":["Purpose: To develop a guideline for the use of sentinel node biopsy (SNB) in early stage breast cancer. Conclusion: SNB is an appropriate initial alternative to routine staging ALND for patients with early-stage breast cancer with clinically negative axillary nodes. Completion ALND remains standard treatment for patients with axillary metastases identified on SNB. Appropriately identified patients with negative results of SNB, when done under the direction of an experienced surgeon, need not have completion ALND. Isolated cancer cells detected by pathologic examination of the SLN with use of specialized techniques are currently of unknown clinical significance. Although such specialized techniques are often used, they are not a required part of SLN evaluation for breast cancer at this time. Data suggest that SNB is associated with less morbidity than ALND, but the comparative effects of these two approaches on tumor recurrence or patient survival are unknown. Available at:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16157938"]}
{"query":"Brennan ME, Turner RM, Ciatto S, et al. Ductal carcinoma in situ at core-needle biopsy: meta-analysis of underestimation and predictors of invasive breast cancer. Radiology 2011;260:119-128. ","relevant_passages":["Purpose: To perform a meta-analysis to report pooled estimates for underestimation of invasive breast cancer (where core-needle biopsy [CNB] shows ductal carcinoma in situ [DCIS] and excision histologic examination shows invasive breast cancer) and to identify preoperative variables that predict invasive breast cancer. Conclusion: About one in four DCIS diagnoses at CNB represent understaged invasive breast cancer. Preoperative variables significantly associated with understaging include biopsy device and guidance method, size, grade, mammographic features, and palpability. Available at:http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21493791"]}